---
title: COPD Statistics
thumb:
infographic: 
summary: 
recommend: 
---



###How many people in the UK have COPD?
In 2013, 2,093 people per 100,000 had COPD, up from 1,570 per 100,000 in 2004.

###Number of people per 100,000 with COPD 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###How many people have COPD in each region of the UK?
There are more people with COPD in the north of the UK – Scotland, the North East, North West and Yorkshire and the Humber.

###Number of people per 100,000 with COPD, by UK region, 2004–13
<iframe width="100%" height="300" src="//jsfiddle.net/Sheerman/a6vbskz9/embedded/" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" frameborder="0"></iframe>

###How many men and how many women have COPD?
About 10 per cent more men than women have COPD. 

###Men and women with COPD per 100,000, 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###What age are people with COPD?
People with COPD are mostly over the age of 40. As people get older, they are more likely to get COPD.

###People with COPD by age group, per 100,000, 2004–13
<iframe width="100%" height="300" src="//jsfiddle.net/Sheerman/wt03rfms/embedded/" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" frameborder="0"></iframe>

###How many people get COPD each year?
In 2013, 179 people per 100,000 got COPD, down from 212 per 100,000 in 2004. The decrease is most likely a result of more people quitting smoking.

###Number of people per 100,000 who got COPD, each year, 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###How many people get COPD each year by UK region?
For the period 2004–13, more people developed COPD in Scotland and the northern regions of England than the rest of the UK. For numbers per year, see the graph below.

###Number of people per 100,000 who got COPD, by UK region 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###How many men and how many women get COPD each year?
In the period 2004–13, more men than women developed COPD, with 192 men developing it in 2013, compared to 167 women. Those figures are down from 228 for men and 197 for women in 2004.  

###Number of men and women per 100,000 who got COPD each year, 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###What age are the people who get COPD each year?
In the period 2004–13, the people who got COPD were mostly over the age of 40. Consistently in that time, the chances of getting the condition increased as people got older.

###Ages of people who got COPD, each year, 2004–13
[Infographic n/a yet]

###How many people have died from COPD?
In the period 2001–10, 211 people per million died from COPD in the UK. The UK is in the top 20 countries for mortality from COPD. 

###Top 20 countries for COPD mortality
<iframe width="100%" height="300" src="//jsfiddle.net/Sheerman/xfw5yppq/embedded/" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" frameborder="0"></iframe>

###How many people die from COPD in the UK by region?
In 2008–12, the number of people who died from COPD increased in the North East and North West of England, compared to the UK overall. In those regions, the increase was higher among men than women. Death rates were notably lower in the East of England and the South West than the UK as a whole. 

In Scotland, deaths from COPD also rose, with, once more, rates higher among women than men.

For the same period in Wales, the number who died increased slightly.

Northern Ireland saw similar rates to the UK overall, with a slight increase in COPD deaths among men. 

###COPD death rates in the UK by region, 2008–12
<iframe width="100%" height="300" src="//jsfiddle.net/Sheerman/amyq0tre/embedded/" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" frameborder="0"></iframe>

###How many men and how many women die from COPD? 
In 2012, 29,766 people died from COPD – that’s 5 per cent of the total number of UK deaths. Of these, 15,245 were men and 14,531 were women.

###What age are the people who die from COPD? 
[No content has been supplied for this heading].
