---
title: Medical Monitoring for Pneumoconioses
thumb: assets/story2.jpg
excerpt: The pneumoconioses are typically detected in living individuals through the use of radiological imaging, traditionally using chest x-ray.
template: 
tags:
  - asthma
  - copd
  - ipf
categories:
 - children
 - scotland  
 - older people
---

<p class="intro">NIOSH operates the Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program, a worker monitoring program for underground coal miners in the U.S.</p>

This program was mandated by the 1969 Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act and is intended to prevent coal workers’ pneumoconiosis through early detection of disease and voluntary mine transfer to low dust jobs. 


###Pneumoconiosis Identification and Classification

The pneumoconioses are typically detected in living individuals through the use of radiological imaging. Traditionally this has been the chest x-ray, taken on film, but now increasingly being acquired through digital computer technology. The International Labor Office (ILO) provides guidelinesExternal Web Site Icon for the systematic scientific classification of radiographs of the pneumoconioses. NIOSH operates the B Reader Program whereby physicians can take an examination to document their proficiency in classifying radiographs for various dust-related abnormalities using the ILO guidelines.

Aspects of the program of potential interest are:

* Frequently Asked Questions and Resource List
* Miner Identification Form Adobe PDF file

This form must be completed by the miner and accompany all x-rays sent to NIOSH for interpretation as part of the Coal Workers' X-ray Surveillance Program. Mail to the address on the form. Do NOT send this form electronically to NIOSH. Print/Copy as a double-sided form.
